docs: integration with marimo guide (#13691)
astral-sh/uv: docs/guides/integration/marimo.md

---
title: Using uv with marimo
description:
  A complete guide to using uv with marimo notebooks for interactive computing, script execution,
  and data apps.
---

# Using uv with marimo

[marimo](https://github.com/marimo-team/marimo) is an open-source Python notebook that blends
interactive computing with the reproducibility and reusability of traditional software, letting you
version with Git, run as scripts, and share as apps. Because marimo notebooks are stored as pure
Python scripts, they are able to integrate tightly with uv.

> You can readily use marimo as a standalone tool, as scripts that contain their own dependencies, in

Reviewer: Maybe?
```suggestion
You can readily use marimo as a standalone tool, as self-contained scripts, in
```

projects, and in non-project environments.

## Using marimo as a standalone tool

For adhoc access to marimo notebooks, start a marimo server at any time in an isolated environment
with:

```console
$ uvx marimo edit
```

> Start a specific notebook with

Author: Done

```console
$ uvx marimo edit my_notebook.py
```

## Using marimo with inline script metadata

Because marimo notebooks are stored as Python scripts, they can encapsulate their own dependencies

> using inline script metadata, via uv's [support for scripts](../../guides/scripts.md). For example:

Reviewer: "For example, to ...:" would be nice

```console
$ uv add --script my_notebook.py numpy
```

> To run a notebook containing script metadata, use

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To run a notebook containing inline script metadata, use
```

```console
$ uvx marimo edit --sandbox my_notebook.py
```

> and marimo will automatically use uv to start your notebook in an isolated virtual environment with

Reviewer: ```suggestion
marimo will automatically use uv to start your notebook in an isolated virtual environment with
```

notebook's script metadata.

You can optionally run these notebooks as scripts with

```console
$ uv run my_notebook.py
```

## Using marimo within a project

If you're working within a [project](../../concepts/projects/index.md), you can start a marimo
notebook with access to the project's virtual environment via the following command (assuming marimo
is a project dependency):

```console
$ uv run marimo edit my_notebook.py
```

To make additional packages available to your notebook, either add them to your project with
`uv add`, or use marimo's built-in package installation UI, which will invoke `uv add` on your
behalf.

If marimo is not a project dependency, you can still run a notebook with

```console
$ uv run --with marimo marimo edit my_notebook.py
```

which will let you import your project's modules. However, packages installed via marimo's UI when
running in this way will not be added to your project, and may disappear on subsequent marimo
invocations.

## Using marimo in a non-project environment

To run marimo in a virtual environment that isn't associated with a
[project](../../concepts/projects/index.md), add marimo to the environment directly:

> === "macOS and Linux"

Reviewer: I would try to avoid this toggle if you can. If `uv run` doesn't work, you could link out to the docs on activating the virtual environment and say "After activating the environment, run `marimo edit`"?

Author: `uv run` does in fact work. Updated, thank you.

    ```console
    $ uv venv
    $ uv pip install numpy
    $ uv pip install marimo
    $ .venv/bin/marimo edit
    ```

=== "Windows"

    ```pwsh-session
    PS> uv venv
    PS> uv pip install numpy
    PS> uv pip install marimo
    PS> .venv\Scripts\marimo edit
    ```

From here, `import numpy` will work within the notebook, and marimo's UI installer will add packages
to the environment with `uv pip install` on your behalf.

> ## Running marimo notebooks as scripts

Author: I've added more context — notebooks can be run as scripts even if they don't have inline script metadata. If you think this is redundant, or obvious, I am happy to remove this section.
